Part 1: Node Abstraction
In /frontend/src, you will find a folder called nodes. This folder contains JavaScript
files for four types of nodes (inputs, outputs, LLMs, and text). Each of these nodes
contains different text, content, and input/output connections (called “Handles”),
but there is also a significant amount of shared code between nodes.
Currently, you could create a new node by copying an existing node into a new file
and making modifications, but this approach ends up rewriting significant amounts of
code. While this approach is tractable for a small number of nodes, it becomes
difficult to maintain as the number of nodes increases.
Your task is to create an abstraction for these nodes that speeds up your ability to
create new nodes and apply styles across nodes in the future.
Once you have created your abstraction, make five new nodes of your choosing to
demonstrate how it works. Don’t spend too long worrying about what the nodes
actually do; you should use this as an opportunity to showcase the
flexibility/efficiency of your node abstraction.
Part 2: Styling
The frontend files you receive do not apply any significant styling. Your task is to style
the various components into an appealing, unified design. You can use the
VectorShift’s existing styles as inspiration if you’d like, but you are also free to create
your own design from the ground-up. You can use whatever React packages/libraries
that you would like.

Part 3: Text Node Logic
The Text node included in the /frontend/src/nodes has a field for text input. We
want to improve the functionality of this text input in two ways.
First, we want the width and height of the Text node to change as the user enters
more text into the text input, improving visibility for what the user types in.
Second, we want to allow users to define variables in their text input. When a user
enters a valid JavaScript variable name surrounded by double curly brackets (e.g., “{{
input }}”), we want to create a new Handle on the left side of the Text node that
corresponds to the variable. For examples of what this should look like, you can try
using a VectorShift Text node or watching Tutorials using the VectorShift Text node.
Part 4: Backend Integration
In the /backend folder, you will find a very simple Python/FastAPI backend. Your task
is to build an integration between the frontend you completed and this simple
backend.
On the frontend, you should update /frontend/src/submit.js to send the nodes
and edges of the pipeline to the /pipelines/parse endpoint in the backend when
the button is clicked.
On the backend, you should update the /pipelines/parse endpoint in
/backend/main.py to calculate the number of nodes and edges in the pipeline. You
should also check whether the nodes and edges in the pipeline form a directed acyclic
graph (DAG). The response from this endpoint should be in the following format:
{num_nodes: int, num_edges: int, is_dag: bool}.
Once you have updated the button and the endpoint, you should create an alert that
triggers when the frontend receives a response from the backend. This alert should
display the values of num_nodes, num_edges, and is_dag in a user-friendly manner.
The final result should allow a user to create a pipeline, click submit, and then
receive an alert with the number of nodes/edges as well as whether the pipeline is a
DAG.


Next Steps:
➤ Step 1: Add 5 new nodes (e.g., DelayNode, FilterNode, ConcatNode, etc.)
Want help with ideas or code for those?

➤ Step 2: Proceed to Part 2: Styling
Would you like me to help you apply Tailwind or CSS modules to style these nodes consistently?

➤ Step 3: Then we move to Part 3: TextNode logic improvement
Let me know how you'd like to proceed!